Hey folks, welcome back to the
Positioning Module in the University of
Minnesota's MOOC on spacial computing.
Now in the last few videos we've
discussed signal-based positioning.
Signal-based positioning techniques, as we
learned, include technologies like GPS,
Wi-Fi positioning and
cellular positioning.
And these techniques are used to, for
instance, locate a device like
a smartphone as it moves through the,
the environment and
a number of other applications for
instance, in the natural sciences,
the military, and so on and so forth.
Signal-based positioning
is what is responsible for
the blue dot that indicates your location
in your mobile map applications.
The locational context given to
location based service apps like Yelp,
by your smartphone, and
so on and so forth.
Now most lectures on positioning you'll
encounter generally stop after they
cover signal positioning.
So once you're done with GPS,
Wi-Fi positioning and
cell positioning, that's about it.
But there's another family of positioning
methods, that in the past few years,
has really been gaining prominence
in both research and practice.
And although there's no official name for
this family of methods yet,
in my own research and
my teaching, I've called these methods
content-based positioning methods.
Another reasonable name might be
inference-based positioning, or
more intriguingly location
inference attacks.
You'll understand why inference,
inference attack might be a reasonable
name by the end of this module.
Now, because these methods have been
attracting so much interest, and
are gaining so much applied value.
I thought it was important to cover
them in some detail, in this module.
An added benefit is that, in addition to
discussing content based positioning.
We will also touch on spatial computing
topics that we weren't able to
squeeze into the course schedule,
like geographing information retrieval and
the geo web scale problem.
Okay so digging in here the dominant use
case in content based positioning is
some what different than that
in signal-based positioning.
So in the case of the latter,
in the case of signal-based positioning,
you'll recall that we were primarily
interested in determining the location of
a client's device for
instance a smart phone of course.
As accurately and as quickly as possible
so that this position could be used in
applications like mobile maps,
located based services etc.
When you are applying content
based positioning methods,
you are generally doing so when no
signal-based position information is
available to your spatial
computing system and, or
when the signal based positioning
information that is available to
your spatial computing system isn't
satisfactory for your systems' needs.
Now the number of applications for
which signal-based positioning is
insufficient is growing and growing.
And the number of applications for
content-based positioning is
accordingly also growing and
growing growing and growing, excuse me.
For instance, let's say that
you're an analyst in the public
relations division of a large company and
you've been tasked with
understanding how people feel about your
company in different parts of the world.
Well one reasonable way to go about
this project is to acquire a data set of
geo tag tweets using the Twitter API,
as we discussed in the volunteer
geographic information module.
Are the latitude and longitude coordinates
that make up these geotags, as we
discussed, generally come from smartphone
signal-based positioning sensors.
Now once you have these geotag Tweets,
you can then use the sentiment analysis
algorithms we also discussed in the
volunteer geographic information module
to determine whether each tweet
was positive, negative or
neutral and produce a map as you recall
Quercia did and you can see that map here.
However you'll also recall from
the volunteer geographic information on
the module that there's a very big
limitation to this approach, and
that is that only one to three percent
of tweets over all are geotagged,
very few Twitter users use this feature.
So if you've just looked at geotag tweets,
you'd actually be missing out on 97 to 99%
of tweets overall, and more importantly,
it's actually, it's pretty unclear in
the literature whether this tweet sample
just your tag tweets would be at all
representative of overall Twitter users,
or the overall population for that matter.
So, this is where content-based
positioning comes in.
When users tweet they often implicitly and
explicitly reveal their location,
regardless of whether they
use the geotagging feature.
So for instance, lets consider
this tweet from my colleague Dr.
Ed Chi,
who is a research scientist at Google, and
a really accomplished researcher in
social computing and human computer
interaction and he also happens to be
a University of Minnesota alumnus.
Now in this tweet Dr.
Chi wrote wonderful afternoon at
the 20th anniversary of HCI at Stanford.
Terry Winograd toasted by many including
my ex and current boss Stewart Card and
Larry Page, so Larry Page is of
course the cofounder of Google.
Stewart Card very famous HCI researcher
same deal with Terry Winograd.
Now we can actually do the same thing with
this tweet, which is from my colleague Dr.
Jessica Vitak.
She's a professor who does some very
impressive research understanding how
people use Facebook and
how it affects our relationships.
Now like me Dr.
Vitak is an American football fan and
at the start of the last football season
Dr. Vitak tweeted let's go Ravens.
Now the Ravens are the team of
the city of Baltimore, Maryland.
And so even though Dr Vitak didn't
explicitly mention a location, right?
There's no explicit location here,
and of course, we have no access to
her smartphone sensors, even without
this information we can still make
a decent guess as to where Jessica
is located, namely, near Baltimore.
And indeed, Dr.
Vitak is a professor at the University
of Maryland, which is located near,
near, near Baltimore, and that also
happens to be where a Dr. Vitak grew up.
Now returning to our positioning scenario,
if you as the public relations analyst
were able to include these two
tweets in your project neither of
which were geo-tagged, and
the billions of tweets like it, right?
The billions of un, un geo-tagged tweets
or some percentage of them your study of,
of, the geography of the public approval
of your company would, of course,
be significantly improved right?
You would increase the number of tweets
you consider by many, many, many-fold.
Now helping to reform these types of
analyses among many other analyses in
domains ranging from advertising
to public safety is what
content-based positioning is all about.
Now more generally we can loosely define
content-based positioning as the use of
implicit and explicit geographic
information contributed or
consumed by Internet users
to generate a position for
these users with or
without their knowledge or consent.
Now we'll be unpacking this definition,
including the somewhat controversial
parenthetical clause there in our
discussion of content-based positioning
over the next few vid, next few videos.
Now more specifically, in these videos
we'll be focusing on the following two
topics which are central to
content-based positioning.
So, the first topic we'll look at,
is geoparsing and geocoding and this
involves the extraction and resolution
places names and natural language text.
The term natural language text is just a,
a really a fancy way of
describing text that regular people have
written without any consideration of
any computer that may want to
extract information from it, right?
So, it's just text that you
post on Twitter maybe submit to
Wikipedia use as a caption on
Instagram and so on and so forth.
Now the other topic we'll focus on is
the identification of home locations.
And this is an important, a, an important
type of position information that can be
really difficult to detect
using signal-based positioning.
Now as part of this video, we'll discuss
how to use location field information in,
in user profiles for this purpose.
This is a really fun topic,
I did some research in this area.
It's really some of the most
fun research I've done.
And we'll talk about that.
So do stay tuned for
this part of the module.
Okay, so that's it for this video.
In the next video we'll begin
tackling Geoparsing and Geocoding.

