Welcome to the module on volunteered
geographic information, or
VGI as it is often called for short.
VGI is an enormously important recent
development in spacial computing and
familiarity with VGI will be
integral to your ability to
understand spacial computing, and
to apply your spatial computing knowledge.
Now, in this module we're going to have
the following five learning objectives.
First, by the end of the module
you should know the definition and
historical context of volunteered
geographic information.
Second, you'll actually be able to
contribute volunteered geographic
information yourself to some well
know VGI repositories and databases.
Third, you should understand
the socio-technical systems or
the combined social and technical
processes that are the mechanisms by
which VGI is generally produced.
Fourth, you should be able to assess
the pros and the cons of VGI for
a given problem context.
And, finally for those of you in the
technical tract will go over the basics of
using VGI in an app or
a website, or any other system.
Okay.
So, let's get moving here and
talk about the definition and
historical context of VGI.
And, to do so, let's go ahead and ti-,
and hop in a time machine for a second and
go back to the year 2000 or so.
Which was unfortunately the last time
I had any hair at all, and which was,
much more importantly in the pre-volunteer
geographic information era.
So, back in 2000 if you were someone
who needed geographic information, for
instance an environmental scientist,
a demographer, a marketing analyst,
an urban planner,
a civil engineer et cetera.
If you're one of these people, you would
likely turn to government agencies like
the United States Geological Survey or
the United States Census here in the US,
Statistics Canada across the border to the
north in Canada, and so on and so forth.
Now, this information would've been
produced with, in the words of the famous
geographer, Dr. Michael Goodchild,
elaborate standards and specifications.
And, by people with
documented qualifications.
These qualifications might have included
a degree, possibly a graduate degree,
in surveying or cartography, or
a related discipline like geography.
However, beginning around the mid 2000s,
a dramatic change began to occur in
the world of geographic information,
production, and dissemination.
Namely, you all started to create
your own geographic information.
More specifically every day Janes and
Joes without documented qualifications and
operating outside of
well known standards and
specifications, well,
these folks began to map things.
For example, in 2004, Steve Coast founded
the OpenStreetMap project which aimed to,
and has now succeeded at rivaling
the expensive government owned map data in
the United Kingdom, with data collected
by thousands of volunteers who
traced satellite images, upload GPS traces
and do many other mapping activities.
Now, since its founding, OpenStreetMap
has become enormously influential in
the spacial computing world.
The information produced in Open.
By OpenStreetMap volunteers, excuse me,
now covers most of the globe and
is incorporated by in products
used by millions of people.
Like for instance,
Apple Maps uses OpenStreetMap data.
Foursquare uses OpenStreetMap data.
And, even the modern Mapquest
uses OpenStreetMap data as well.
OpenStreetMap has been so
successful that Google has
implemented a similar system in
Google Maps called Google Map Maker.
Now, using map maker anyone
including you can sign up and
suggest edits to Google's space map.
For instance, you can see here I was
the one who added the location of
my lab GroupLens to Google Maps.
We'll be talking more
about open street map and
Google Map Maker as
this module progresses.
Around the same time the Open Street Map
project was launched, volunteers also
began to tag Wikipedia articles about
geographic entities with latitude and
longitude coordinates.
This is the process known as geo tagging.
For instance, you can see here that
contributors to Wikipedia have
geo tagged the article about
the University of Minnesota with
the appropriate latitude and
longitude coordinates.
Now, these geo tags have
become a critical data set.
For instance, if you launch
Google Earth you'll notice that you can
turn on a Wikipedia layer.
Now, this layer is not
magically created by Google.
It's powered by volunteer contributions of
geotags from Wikipedia contributors and
this is the data set that anyone including
you can download at any time and
can add to it any time.
Now, the research by my students in my lab
often takes advantage of these geotags and
I'll be talking more about
this later in the module.
And, those of you in the technical track
will actually be using these geo tags in,
an assignment.
Now, the mid 2000s also saw the rise
of people mapping their world in
the form of online geo-tagged photography.
Geo-tagged photos
are regular old photos that,
similar to geo-tagged Wikipedia articles,
have an associated latitude and
longitude coordinate of
where the photo was taken.
Now, in the mid 2000s,
people began geo-tagging their photos and
uploading them to photo sharing
sites like Flickr and by 2006 or
2000, 2007,
there were actually already te-,
about 20 million geo-tagged
photos on Flickr.
Now, this phenomenon has only grown and
grown, with for
instance, Instagram supporting the easy,
automatic geo-tagging of photos.
Now, these days, social media other than
photos can also be geotagged and shared.
Most famously, Twitter allows
people to geotag their tweets and
about 1-3% of tweets have latitude and
longitude coordinates.
You can see some of these
tweets here on one million ma,
excuse me, onemilliontweetmap.com.
And, this is one of the many websites
that uses the public Twitter API to
gather geotagged Twitter content.
For instance,
someone very recently tweeted and
you can see this here about the lovely
farmers market occurring on
the University of Minnesota campus
on this very beautiful summer day.
Now, geo-tracked pho social media
like photos and tweets have proven to
be an extremely valuable resource for
industry and for academia.
Now, Mor Naaman is a professor at
Cornell Tech in New York City and
the cofounder and chief scientist of Seen.
Which is a startup dedicated to extracting
stories from social media data.
I asked my colleague Mor to describe the
impact geo-tagged social media has had on
his research and on his company,
and here's what he said.
He said that vast amounts of data
shared on social media reflect people's
attitudes, attention.
Activities and interests offering
unique opportunities to analyze and
reason about our world and our society.
With associated geotag information,
these social media items allow us to
understand for the first time,
what people are paying attention to and
where they pay attention
from in real time.
This data can prove hugely valuable to
a diverse set of applications such as
improving city management, marketing,
journalism, tourism, health and many,
many more.
Now, all of these examples
are of people producing and
sharing geographic information, whether
they're talking about geotag tweets or
Open Street Map contributions are examples
of volunteered geographic information.
Now, more formally,
Michael Goodchild, the originator of
the term volunteered geographic
information, defined VGI as follows.
Volunteered geographic information
is the widespread engagement of
large numbers of private citizens,
often with little in
the way of formal qualification in
the creation of geographic information.
A function that has been, has been for
centuries a reserved to official agencies.
They are largely untrained and
their actions are almost always voluntary
and results may or may not be accurate.
But, collectively, they represent
a dramatic innovation that certainly will
have profound impacts on geographic
information systems and more generally on
the discipline of geography and
its relationship to the general public.
Most of this definition should
be familiar to you by now for
instance the illumination of the monopoly
of the creation of geographic
information by official agencies due to
the participation of regular old folks or
in Goodchild's terminology.
Private citizens.
Now, these private citizens can be
contributors to OpenStreetMap or
Wikipedia, or just people that upload
a Geotag photos, Geotag tweets and so on.
Goodchild also highlights the enormous
impact of this change on geographic
information systems and geography to
critical components of spatial computing.
Really, this impact can not be overstated.
So, for instance Sarah Ellwood,
a well known professor of geography
at the University Of Washington.
Describes VGI, as potentially one
of the most important phenomenon to
impact the discipline of
geography in recent years.
And, more generally, a profound
transformation in how we know the world.
Now, back in the year 2000 two
professors sitting down to
decide what to include in a spacial
computing course would have
never have considered using a precious
entire module on geographic information.
Produced just by regular ol'
people without any qualifications.
However, in the spacial computing world of
2014, Doctor Schecker and I thought that
there was no way we could teach a spacial
computing course without this material.
In just a short period of time,
Volunteered Geographic Information,
has become essential to spatial computing
as one of it's primary sources of data.
This is a big, and a fast change.
This raises the question.
Why and
how did this enormous development occur?
Now, this is a difficult
question to answer.
But, many developers point to
a key role played by a number of
enabling technologies.
First and foremost, prior to the year
2000, it was very difficult for
regular people, to obtain an accurate
position, to for instance geotag a photo.
Now, this all changed when the public
gained access to precise GPS information,
which is something that we're going to
cover in the positioning lecture.
Another core enabler of VGI is Web 2.0 or
the technological transition of
the internet from a Read Only experience
from most users to one in which it
is common for web users to both
consume and contribute information.
Those of you who are old enough
to remember the year 2000,
probably also remember when
core Web 2.0 technologies like
the ability to review products online and
write blog posts didn't exist.
Now, if these capabilities and others
that allow regular people to very easily
upload and contribute information
were not around we wouldn't have VGI.
Now, while GPS and Web 2.0 were two of
the most important technologic precursors
to VGI there are many others as well.
For instance the smartphone,
broadband internet access.
And, widespread availability of
sophisticated computer graphics.
Okay.
So, you should now have a basic
understanding of the definition and
historical context of volunteered
geographic information.
Let's do a few quick multiple choice and
true, false questions to
test your knowledge so far.
As you might guess from
the different population that is
producing geographic information.
That is people without former
qualifications and the different means by
which this information is produced
that is outside of official agencies.
VGI as a whole displays very
different properties than
traditional geographic information.
Understanding these differences and
learning how to adapt to them are integral
to your ability to successfully use
VGI in spatial computing systems.
In the words of Elwood and colleagues, VGI
requires rethinking many of the important
concepts that geographers have previously
used to understand geographic information.
Its uses and its impacts.
Now, the goal of the next few modules will
be to introduce you, to what is known
about how VGI is produced, the resulting
properties of VGI, and how control for or
take advantage of these properties in VGI
based spacial computing technologies.
[NOISE]

