Hey folks,
welcome back to the spatial computing move
from the University of Minnesota.
In this video we're going to
kick off the cartography module.
And cartography is an enormous
subject that is certainly deserving of
its own entire course, rather than just
its own module as we've done here.
However certain topics within cartography
are particularly important for
those of us interested
in spatial computing.
So we're going to be focusing
specifically on these topics.
And in particular in this module,
we're going to have the following
five learning objectives.
first, we're going to discuss
the professional context of
cartography research and
practice in the Google Maps era.
And this is a context that really
represents substantial changes from
the era before it.
It's an interesting topic.
Next by the end of this module you should
be able to, to distinguish between and
understand the purpose of the two major
types of maps that exist in the world.
Reference maps and thematic maps.
Third, we're going to go over the
limitations of popular online and mobile
reference maps, so that you can take
advantage the, of them more effectively
both as a, a map user, and for those of
you in the technical track map creators.
Fourth by the end of the module,
you should be aware of many of
the most common types of thematic maps,
and you should be
able to make an educated choice between
them for a given geocommunication need.
What do I mean by geocommunication?
Well, there're lots of different ways
authors have defined the purpose of
making a map and
the purpose of cartography in general.
But for this audience, for
this spatial computing audience,
I really like the definition by
University of Minnesota graduate, Dr.
Ian Muehlenhaus, in his textbook,
Web Cartography Map Design for
Interactive and Mobile Devices.
In his text book Dr Muehlenhaus
writes that all maps are a form of
geo communication.
They are designed to communicate something
about our spacial environment to a map
reader or map user.
Once again, maps are explicitly designed,
their sole purpose is to
communicate something about our spacial
environment to a map reader or a map user.
This is what he defines as geo
communication and it's at the core of
defining what a map is, because it
exemplifies what a map actually does.
And Dr. Muehlenhaus goes on in his
very typically colorful writing style.
He writes that excellent maps are designed
with a communicative purpose in mind.
A map that merely represents data is
no more useful than an encyclopedia.
And that's something to keep in
mind throughout this entire module.
So that's geo-communication, which is
a concept that will underlie again,
a lot of the videos in this module,
but that's actually not it for
the learning objectives.
We do indeed have our fifth
learning objective here, and
that is to become familiar with some of
the computing oriented innovation going on
in cartography right now.
We of course can't go over everything.
There's a lot of exciting innovation going
on and most of it is computing oriented.
So I've actually selected a particularly
interesting topic, and one that we're
actually beginning to see spillover into
the mainstream, which is very exciting.
And that topic is called
Spatialization and it's going to be a,
a fun way to end this module.
Okay, so let's get rolling here
with our first learning objective,
which is understanding the change,
professional contacts of cartography in
this Google Maps era in which we live.
We can begin this discussion with
a little bit of history here.
As you can see, maps have been around for
a really long time, but it wasn't
really until after World War II that
professional and academic cartography,
at least as we know them now, got,
got rolling, got their start.
From about after World War II,
to around the year 2000, it was these
professional and academic cartographers
that really ruled the roost when it,
it came to the production of maps,
and the research around creating maps.
They were also some folks in geography and
associated fields, as well in the mix, but
it was just a small group of people, that
were involved in the creation of maps.
But all of this began to change with
the popularization of the internet, and
especially as you might guess with the
release of Google Maps, which as some of
us remember happened in a very eventful
period for cartography in 2005.
Google Maps really exponentially increased
the speed of a major shift that had
really, to a certain extent been,
already been under way in cartography.
And that is that the most important
maps in people's lives were no
longer being produced by cartographers.
They are being, they were being produced
by folks with a computer science
background, and actually no
training at all in cartography.
In fact when I was on a panel with some
colleagues who work on Google Maps at
the 2011 annual meeting of the North
American Cartographic Information Society,
my colleagues at Google mentioned
that the number of cartographers on
the Google Maps team,
was somewhere around zero.
I actually know that there's at least
one there now, a, a fellow who used to
work at National Geographic, but
the overall conclusion is the same, right?
People with formal cartography backgrounds
have had little direct imput into what is
probably the most widely
used map in human history.
And that's something worth repeating,
right?
Cartographers have had little direct
input in the most widely used,
in at least what is probably the most
widely used map in human history.
The folks who do have direct input, the
folks who are controlling this map are,
are folks with various types of
computer science backgrounds.
Software engineering,
user experience and so on and so forth.
These are the folks leading the charge.
In fact, in the words of Dr. Ian
Newenhouse whose textbook we were looking
at earlier, Dr. Muehlenhaus writes that
today, a majority of online and mobile
maps are created by computer scientists,
Web designers, or self-taught coders.
In essence, it seems the craft
of online map making has
developed without too much input from
the discipline of cartography itself.
Dr Meuelenhaus also notes that
the dominance of computer science in
cartography will persist
unless academic programs can
synthesize the massive amount of new
knowledge dealing with online and
interactive maps, and contribute back
to those actually designing these maps.
And this is something that Dr.
Meuelenhaus's textbook is
specifically targeted to do.
So what is the end effect of
computer science's leading role on
cartography on the actual
consumers of maps?
Well, as someone with degrees
in both computer science and
geography hopefully I'm
relatively unbiased and
I actually think computer science
has done a really good job.
Maps are being used for
more tasks, by more people,
many more times per day than they were
before computer scientists got involved.
For instance, and this is one of my
favorite spacial computing factoids.
Recent data suggests that both Google Maps
and Apple Maps are actually in
the top ten, in terms of apps used
by American smartphone owners, and
I would suspect that these statistics
are repeated in many places in the world.
So all of this said some
controversial decisions have
been made in popular online and
mobile maps as a result of
their creators not having any
formal cartography training.
And a lack of cartography training shows
even more when you're talking about
folks who use these maps in
various web applications in what
are called map mash-ups.
Dr Meuelenhaus crystallizes
this situation pretty well in
his textbook when he writes that
the forthcoming pages demonstrate just how
different web cartography
is from paper mapping.
But, and
this part is really important, they will
also impress on you the fact that for
all of the differences, many of the core
tenets of cartography remain intact.
Now all of this means that there are two
groups of people in spacial computing who
are essential to the present and
future of online and mobile maps.
The first group is computing
oriented folks who lack a formal
cartography background, and
the second group is cartography or
geography oriented folks,
who lack the technical skills or
the computing background of
the computing-oriented folks.
Of course there're few people at
the intersection of these circles, but
we need many, many more.
A key goal of this module
is to start a process for
some of you that leads you from moving
from a non-intersecting part of
one of these circles to the intersection.
And more specifically, for those of you
on the left circle, in this module,
hopefully you'll gain a bit of
formal cartography background in
a fashion that's amenable to
your computing-oriented nature.
And for those of you in the right circle,
hopefully you'll be able to update
your formal cartographic background to
include some of the new computing
oriented approaches to cartography.
And there of course are going to be some
topics we're going to talk about that
are going to be interesting to all parts
of this diagram here including the few of
you who may be in
the intersection of this cir-,
these two circles.
Okay, so that's actually it for
the first video in this module.
I'll see you in the next one.

