Hey, folks.
Welcome back to the University of
Minnesota's MOOC from GPS and
Google Maps, to spacial computing.
It's hard to believe, but
this is the last module of the MOOC.
We very much enjoyed getting to know
you all in the discussion forums, and
of course, via our Twitter account, and
we hope you've had a wonderful experience
learning about spacial computing.
Now one theme that we hope has really
come across in many of the modules is
that spacial computing is
a rapidly developing area.
It's definitely a living subject and
it's really just beginning to take off.
Now in this vein, when discussing what to
cover in our last module, Dr. Sheker and
I decided that we wanted to give you
a sample of a hot off the presses work.
Going on in special computing.
So you might get a sense of
where the field might be going.
Now to do so
the format, the format of this module
is going to be a little different.
Dr. Shakir and
I are, are each going to present two
emerging topics from our research areas.
We're also going to feature new interviews
with a number of experts in the field.
And lastly we have put together a montage
of interview respondents discussing where
they think the field of spatial
computing is headed in the short and
in the long term.
Be sure to check out that last video.
Okay before signing off here
I want to do two things.
First I want to remind you to finish
your concepts track quiz for this
module before the course ends, which of
course is at the end of Monday as usual.
For those of you in the technical track,
do remember to submit your answers
to the final programming assignment.
Now second, I would like to offer
a few notes of gratitude here.
Now this MOOC could not have been
made without the expert guidance of
Keith Brown, our Cristina Lopez, and
their colleagues at the University of
Minnesota's Academic Technology
Support Services group.
We also want to thank our
videographers James Ondrey and
David Lindeman, and
their team of undergraduates for
doing an amazing job at putting
all of these videos together.
You may remember James and
University of Minnesota undergraduate
Colin here from, from module five.
We also want to thank the University of
Minnesota Libraries for their very helpful
guidance navigating copyright issues in
this very new educational environment.
Now this MOOC was generously supported by
the University of Minnesota's Department
of Computer Science and Engineering,
the College of Science and
Engineering and especially
the Vice President and Provost's Office.
The National Science Foundation and Google
also provided support for this MOOC.
And last but not definitely,
definitely not least here.
I would like to offer a major thank
you to our wonderful TAs Toby Li and
Xun Tang they really did an amazing job.
So that's it for
me on behalf of Doctor Shashi Sheker,
myself Doctor Brant Heck and
the University of Minnesota.
Thanks for participating in the MOOC and
we hope you've learned a great
deal about spatial computing.

